Hi everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're going to kick off our section on numbered lists.
I'm going to start with the range function so you can use this function to generate a list of numbers.
So as you can see to get us started I've just entered in some comments to date the author and the name
of the program the range function we're going to add in one more comment here to get us started using
the range function.
Perfect.
So our first line for value in range 1 to 5.
So this code should be very familiar with you.
Now obviously the first thing you should notice is that it's a for loop.
If you haven't noticed that or if this is unfamiliar to you.
Go back to the last lecture and have a review.
Our next line obviously is indented because when we have a for loop which is close to the colon your
editor will usually indent the line for you.
So print value
perfect.
Now you would think that the output would be 1 2 3 4 5.
And if you did think that you were wrong because in this example the range function prints the numbers
1 through four.
So you can see it here in the bottom left 3:59 the range function starts counting at the first value
which is 1 and then stops when it reaches the second last value because it stops at the second last
value the output never contains the end number which in this case would have been 5.
So if I change five to six and run it again which on the Mac is controlled and be commanded be sorry.
I get one two three four five.
So that's a quick introduction into the start of this section which is numerical lists and using the
range function to Karaite on the range of numbers that you want.
And the next lecture we're going to be talking about creating a list of numbers so I'll see you there.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.